# Regular Expressions (RegEx)

> Know that a regular expression is simply a way
> of describing a set and that regular expressions
> allow particular types of languages to be
> described in a convenient shorthand notation

Regular expressions are a way of describing a set. 
Regular expressions allow particular languages to be described in a convenient shorthand notation.

## Basic Operators

> Be able to form and use simple regular
> expressions for string manipulation and matching.

| Operator | Description |
| :------: | :---------: |
| `*` | 0 or more repetitions |
| `+` | 1 or more repetitions |
| `?` | 0 or 1 repetitions |
| `|` | Alternative, i.e. or |
| `( )` | Match Group |

### Examples

| Regex | Matches | Doesn't Match |
| :---: | :------ | :------------ |
| `a+b` | {ab, aab, aaab, aa...b, ...} | {b, aba, abba, aabb, ...} |
| `(bc)*a` | {a, bca, bcbca, bcbcbca, bcbc...bca, ...} | {bc, bcaa, bbcca, ...} |
| `LL?D?D` Where `L = {A..Z}; D = {0..9}` | {A0, AA9, AA00, A31, BBBBB0000023, ...} | {AB0B, ...} |

## Regex and FSM's

> Be able to describe the relationship between
> regular expressions and FSMs.

Regular expressions and FSM's are both ways of defining a regular language. 
A regular langauge is any langauge which can be accepted by and FSM.

> Be able to write a regular expression to recognise
> the same language as a given FSM and vice
> versa.

#### **Additional Information**

> For example, the regular expression a(a|b)\*
> generates the set of strings {a, aa, ab, aaa, aab,
> aba, …}.

<!-- -->
> Students should be familiar with the
> metacharacters:
> * \* (0 or more repetitions)
> * + (1 or more repetitions)
> * ? (0 or 1 repetitions, ie optional)
> * | (alternation, ie or)
> * ( ) to group regular expressions.
> Any other metacharacters used in an exam
> question will be explained as part of the question.

<!-- -->
> Regular expressions and FSMs are equivalent
> ways of defining a regular language.

<!-- -->
> A student's ability to write very simple regular
> expressions and FSMs will be assessed.
