# Communication methods

## Serial and Parallel transmission

>Define serial and parallel transmission methods
and discuss the advantages of serial over parallel
transmission.

Serial transmission
* One bit sent at a time one after the other
* Single wire used

Parallel transmission
* Multiple bits sent simultaneously
* Multiple wired used

## Synchronous and Asynchronous transmission

>Define and compare synchronous and
asynchronous data transmission.

Synchronous data transmission
* Data transferred at  regular intervals that are timed by a clocking signal, allowing for constant and reliable transmission for time-sensitive data e.g. real time video or voice.

Asynchronous data transmission
* Receiver and transmitter (clock) do not need to be exactly synchronised to transmit data. Receiver and transmitter clock only synchronised at the start of data transmission.

## Start and stop bits

>Describe the purpose of start and stop bits in
asynchronous data transmission.

Start bit 
* Used to signal the arrival of data and to temporarily synchronise the transmitter and receiver.

Stop bit
* A character in asynchronous data transmission that lets a receiver know that the byte being sent has ended

## Additional Information
* When asked to give the binary pattern of asynchronous transmission use either 1/0 as start/stop bits. **Must not be the same**. Question may specify stop bit has to be 2 bits, these will be same.
* Stop bits are very important because this is the way most of our information is sent across the internet. Without a stop bit it is possible that a receiving computer will likely prompt an error as it may take in unintended data if the end of the intended data is not given.
* Synchronous data transmission is also used in the central processing unit.
