# Analysis

> Be aware that before a problem can be solved, it
> must be defined, the requirements of the system
> that solves the problem must be established
> and a data model created. Requirements of
> system must be established by interaction with
> the intended users of the system. The process of
> clarifying requirements may involve prototyping/
> agile approach.

## What is analysis?

Analysis is the first stage of software development. 
In the analysis, the problem is identified and solutions are proposed.

Analysis includes:
* understand what has prompted the need for a new system
* gathering information
* carrying out a feasibility study

## Defining a problem

Once you have identified that there is a problem with the system or 
a new area needs developing, 
you must keep an open mind and get to understand the problem before looking for solutions.

This will involve knowing the scope of the problem and 
how much of the problem a new system can solve.

Any constraints must be identified here.

In the case that the solution you are creating is for someone else, 
it is best to clearly agree on a specification and scope for the project. 
This will allow you to ensure you keep in line with what your client wants.

## Prompts for a new system

There are many reasons why you may wish to create a new system, 
from the increasing demand on old systems to the faster enhancement of technology.

* Some systems cannot cope with load
* New technology means that existing systems are outdated quickly
