# Function Type

> Know that a function, f, has a function type
>
> f: A → B (where the type is A → B, A is the
> argument type, and B is the result type).
>
> Know that A is called the domain and B is called
> the co-domain.
>
> Know that the domain and co-domain are always
> subsets of objects in some data type.

## What is a function Type

A function type denotes the kind of inputs that a function can take 
and the kind of outputs which the function will give.

For example, an add function may look something like this:
```haskell
add :: Int -> Int -> Int
add x y =
	x + y
```

This function takes two integers and returns an integer.
You can tell this from the *type definition* before the function.

## Domain and Co-domain

### Example 1:
`add :: Int -> Int -> Int`

### Example 2:
`sumToString :: Int -> Int -> String`

When talking about the inputs a function can take and the outputs a function can give, 
we often refer to **Domain** and **Co-domain**.

The domain is the set of values from which the function is allowed to take values as inputs.

[Example 1](#example-1) and [example 2](#example-2) allow for an input which belongs to the set of *Integers*.

The co-domain is the set from which a functions outputs are chosen.

[Example 1](#example-1) shows that the output of the function will have a type of *Int* and therefore belong to the *Integers*.

In [example 2](#example-2) however, the co-domain is different from the domain.
The co-domain of example 2 is a type of `String`, meaning that the function will output a string.

#### *Additional Information*

> Loosely speaking, a function is a rule that, for
> each element in some set A of inputs, assigns an
> output chosen from set B, but without necessarily
> using every member of B. For example,
>
> f: {a,b,c,…z} → {0,1,2,…,25} could use the rule
> that maps a to 0, b to 1, and so on, using all
> values which are members of set B.
>
> The domain is a set from which the function’s
> input values are chosen.
>
> The co-domain is a set from which the function’s
> output values are chosen. Not all of the codomain’s
> members need to be outputs.
